harlequin beetle looks formidable
and it is this bug's body reaches three
inches in length and its front legs are
often
even longer than that they help it crawl
on trees
getting from branch to branch and males
also use them to
impress females
despite the looks harlequin beetles
aren't really dangerous
they won't bite you even if you corner
them and if you
by any chance grow cabbage in your
backyard
you probably would try to corner them
these bugs feed on its leaves
still better not to touch them with your
bare hands
they exude a foul smelling liquid that
both stinks and stings
causing skin irritation wear those
gloves will ya
you know what also stinks now besides my
socks
squash bugs if you have a garden patch
these pests can be more than just a
nuisance
they could spoil the squash you've been
lovingly growing for the fall
hence the name and if you squash them
they begin to smell just awful
hence the pond squash bugs are
also often mistaken for stink bugs but
those are even more notorious
they begin stinking even if you so much
as touch them
wow sensitive giraffe weevil is probably
the most
harmless little fella on this list but
not much is known about it yet
it gets its name from the long spiny
neck
this adaptation helps them build nests
and fight over other weevils for food
and mates
it may be placid but the red covering of
its wings
lets predators know the bug is either
foul tasting or
poisonous or both
likewise you shouldn't eat monarch
butterflies or their caterpillars
these beautiful insects are often kept
as pets
and were once almost chosen as the
national insect of the us
but the little known fact is that
they're highly poisonous
monarchs feed on milkweed a plant
containing a potent toxin
they've acquired immunity to it and as a
side effect
butterflies accumulate the toxin in
their bodies
this makes them a very unappetizing dish
for birds and other predators
the concentration is so high that even
humans that accidentally
or not eat a monarch caterpillar can
experience
quite unpleasant consequences
mealworm beetles are abundant almost
anywhere so
you must have seen them the most
probable place to find them
is a poultry farm though mealworm larvae
are often used to feed farm birds
and that's where the danger lies
male worms carry lots of diseases that
can spread among birds
and then to humans they also like to eat
chicken food
and even insulation on farms so they're
not the best choice of a meal for birds
despite their name and adult beetles
produce a poison that's not harmful in
small doses but causes allergy in high
concentrations
if you happen to be at a poultry farm
make sure you avoid those beetles
tiger beetles come in lots of shapes and
colors
but they all have two traits in common
long thin
legs and sharp sword-like mandibles
those legs allow them to run faster than
almost any other insect
so fast in fact that when they're on a
hunt they sometimes have to stop and
look around for a few seconds
their eyes and brain simply can't
process the picture quickly enough
so they wait for the landscape to load
around them
most tiger beetles are harmless but if
you see one with an
orange pattern on its back don't touch
it
these bugs produce cyanide to protect
themselves
and this chemical can do a lot of harm
both to animals and people if you touch
a tiger beetle and then
rub your mouth or eyes it might cause
severe irritation
oh look see that wonderful pattern on a
flower over there
looks like an impressionist painting and
in a sense it is
that's a picasso bug these critters feed
on plants and
are mostly placid but think twice if you
want to take a closer look
it's not a ladybug when touched it'll
emit a strong odor that's not exactly
flowering
we're still you might have a hard time
getting rid of the stench even
hours after the encounter
walking out of a pine forest you notice
a weird movement
right beneath your feet it looks like a
little fuzzy train that's several dozen
feet long
in fact it's a defense technique of pine
precessionary caterpillars
they travel nose to tail in large groups
to protect each other
they look really particular but trying
to disrupt the column
isn't the best idea each car of this
natural train
has hundreds of needle sharp bristles if
you touch any of them with your bare
hand they'll first cause sharp pain and
then some other
unpleasant reactions predators don't
like pine processionaries for the same
reason
asian giant hornets live mostly in asian
countries
but they were reported in north america
in 2019
these beasts are big yellow and vicious
it's impossible to confuse a giant
hornet with any other bee or wasp
they're much larger and a lot more
aggressive
but the worst thing about them is their
stinger which is more than three times
longer than that of a honeybee the
stinger contains a really potent venom
and several stings from an asian giant
hornet can bring down even a large
animal
and a human too and if that wasn't
enough
these creatures can even spray their
venom aiming at the eyes
needless to say that's an unforgettable
experience
lenomia is a rather unassuming little
moth that doesn't pose a threat to
anyone
but before it becomes a moth it has to
go through a caterpillar stage
and that's when you don't want to cross
its path
lanomia caterpillars are covered in hair
thin bristles
that contain a powerful venom but even
if you know not to touch them
you still might get pricked caterpillars
perfectly blend in with tree trunks to
add to their protection
a person might unknowingly lean on a
trunk with lenomias huddled on it
and they won't hesitate to stick those
needles into the unlucky guest
if you get stung immediately seek
medical attention
[Music]
now let's admit all centipedes are
terrifying
and perhaps one of the most horrible
species is a texas
red-headed centipede first of all it
looks like
it's ascended from your deepest darkest
nightmares a black
section body dozens of yellowish legs
that look more like claws
and a red head with two long horns a
picture enough to make me run for it in
a split second
being pretty large these crawlers have a
voracious appetite
munching on toads lizards and an
occasional rat
sometimes when desperate they can even
catch a bat
right in the middle of a flight and of
course red-headed centipedes are
venomous
fitting for such an appearance luckily
they're not interested in humans
and that's mutual now this critter isn't
large but it's very defensive
meaning you don't want to cross it its
name
speaks for itself the devil's coach
horse
a total black bug that resembles an
earwig
it will raise its behind and open his
powerful jaws when threatened
this pose makes it look like a scorpion
and at this point
better back off if you don't the devil's
coach horse will start to emit
a foul stench and ooze unpleasant liquid
from its mouth for defense
and if that doesn't scare you off it
will eventually bite
which is quite painful you know just
leave the beast alone
okay velvet ants
aren't ants at all they're a kind of
wingless wasp that just look a lot like
ants
these bugs don't form large colonies and
usually live alone
hiding in tall grass this behavior has
given them another nickname
cow ants because when a cow is grazing
nearby
it might step on a velvet ant and get a
painful bite in return
humans also get bitten sometimes
especially if they walk barefoot
velvet ants are venomous but their venom
is less potent than that of bees
so it's not really dangerous still the
pain from such a bite is serious
and if you want to squash this bug good
luck
they have an unusually tough carapace
that protects them from other stinging
insects
and even birds
puss moths get their name from their
furry fuzzy appearance it's like they're
little fluffy flying kitties
moths might be cute but their
caterpillars as always
should only be looked at not touched
despite the even fuzzier looks a puss
caterpillar is covered in thousands of
hollow spines
that break off the critter's back upon
contact and inject their venom
and what a venom it is pus caterpillars
are the most
venomous caterpillars in the u.s one
sting of this little monster
can result in days and even weeks of
sickness
and if you're allergic to it then i can
only wish you
best of luck